Shubham/LiveTail (#7022)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/livetail.md

---
title: Live Tail
kind: documentation
description: "See all your trace spans in real time."
---

> # Live Tail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this displays automatically from the `title` frontmatter

{{< img src="tracing/live_tail/livetail_view.gif" alt="Live tail" >}}

## Overview

> The [Live Tail][1] feature gives users the ability to see all trace spans in near real-time from anywhere in the Application. It displays spans as soon as they get out of the Datadog agent section and before they are indexed by Datadog, hence:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The APM [Live Tail][1] gives users the ability to see all trace spans in near real-time from anywhere in the Datadog UI. It displays spans as soon as they get out of the Datadog agent section and before they are indexed by Datadog and it has these features:
```

> All trace spans ingested by Datadog are displayed. (It’s a part of tracing without Limits*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All trace spans ingested by Datadog are displayed because It’s a part of tracing without Limits*
```

> Displayed spans have been processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It displays spans that have been processed.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. The span stream can be paused

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The span stream can be paused.
```

> 2. Write search parameters to refine the streaming view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can write search parameters to refine the streaming view.
```

> 3. View the distributed trace in real-time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- View the distributed trace in real-time.
```

> 4. Add or remove columns from span tags for a customized view 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add or remove columns from span tags for a customized view. 
```

> This feature allows you, for instance, to check if a process has correctly started, or if a new deployment went smoothly. Or view outage related information in real-time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature allows you to check if a process has correctly started, or if a new deployment went smoothly. Or view outage related information in real-time.
```

## Live Tail view

> Choose the `Live Tail` option in the time range selector to switch to the Live Tail view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the APM [Live tail][1] page, choose the `Live Tail` option in the time range selector to switch to the Live Tail view.
```

Reviewer: is this the correct page?

> The number of received spans per second is displayed at the top left, as well as the sampling rate. Since a stream of thousands of spans per second is not human readable, high throughput span streams are sampled for visual clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the number of received spans per second and the sampling rate at the top left. Since a stream of thousands of spans per second is not human readable, high throughput span streams are sampled for visual clarity.
```

> Use the Live Tail search bar filtering features to filter the spans stream and the Pause/Play button at the top right of the screen to pause or resume the stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Live Tail search bar filtering features to filter the spans stream and use the *Pause* and *Play* button at the top right of the screen to pause or resume the stream.
```

**Note**: Selecting any span pauses the stream and displays more details about the selected span in the trace side panel.

## Column Options

Customize the Live Tail column view to better highlight the relevant information in your traces. Click on the column dropdown at the top right of the column header to activate one of the options below:
{{< img src="tracing/live_tail/column_livetail.png" alt="Live tail" >}}

> 1. Move column to the right or left

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Move column to the right or left.
```

> 2. Insert column to the right or left from span tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Insert the column to the right or left from span tags.
```

> 3. Remove or replace column column

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove or replace the column.
```

## Filtering the trace Stream

> A valid query in the search bar displays traces that match your search criteria. The search syntax is the same in the Live Tail views as in the other trace views, but here, your query is matched against all of the ingested traces and not just the indexed ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A valid query in the search bar displays traces that match your search criteria. The search syntax is the same in the Live Tail views as in the other trace views, but here, your query is matched against all of the ingested traces and not just the indexed ones.
```

## Search Query

{{< img src="tracing/live_tail/search_livetail.png" alt="Live tail" >}}

Any query that works in other views works in the Live Tail view, but you can only filter on attributes that are defined as facets.

> For example, to filter on the following customer_id attribute there are two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to filter on the a customer_id attribute, there are two options:
```

> Click on the attribute and add it to the search:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Click on the attribute and add it to the search using the query `@customer_id:1123`.
```

> Use the following query `@customer_id:1123`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To filter on all spans with a duration above 150ms use the following query: `@duration:>150ms`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filter on all spans with a duration above 150ms using the query: `@duration:>150ms`.
```
